---
title: "5.- Interoperability"
permalink: /design-forces/interoperability/
excerpt: "The ability of making systems work together."
modified: 2016-07-29T15:54:02-04:00
---
{% include toc %}

_Interoperability_ refers to the ability of making systems work together. In particular, the possibility to exchange information with other free and proprietary software, devices and systems, including GNSS signals, RF front-ends, external assistance, and all sort of information-displaying or sensor data fusion applications via standard outputs.


## Interoperability with GNSS signals

A software defined receiver needs to interoperate with GNSS signals, defined as combinations of frequency band and channel or code, from which GNSS observables (_i.e._, measurements of pseudorange, carrier phase, Doppler and signal strength) can be generated. The new signal structures for GPS, Galileo and BDS make it possible to generate code and phase observations based on one or a combination of several channels: two-channel signals are composed of I and Q components, whereas three-channel signals of A, B, and C components.

Possible GNSS signals are listed below:

* **GPS**
  - L1 band: $$ 1575.42 $$ MHz
    * C/A; L1C (D); L1C (P); L1C (D+P); P (AS off); Z-tracking and similar (AS on); Y; M; and codeless.

  - L2 band: $$ 1227.60 $$ MHz
    * C/A; L1(C/A)+(P2-P1) (semi-codeless); L2C (M): L2C (L); L2C (M+L); P (AS off); Z-tracking and similar (AS on); Y; M; and codeless.

  - L5 band: $$ 1176.45 $$ MHz
    * I; Q; I+Q.

* **Galileo**
  - E1 band: $$ 1575.42 $$ MHz
    * A PRS;  B I/NAV OS/CS/SoL; C no data; C+B; A+B+C.

  - E5a band: $$ 1176.45 $$ MHz
    * I F/NAV OS; Q no data; I+Q.

  - E5b band: $$ 1207.14 $$ MHz
    * I I/NAV OS/CS/SoL; Q no data; I+Q.

  - E5 (E5a+E5b) band: $$ 1191.795 $$ MHz
    * I; Q; I+Q.

  - E6 band: $$ 1278.75 $$ MHz
    * A PRS; B C/NAV CS; C no data; B+C; A+B+C.


* **GLONASS**
  - G1 band: $$ 1602+k \cdot 9/16 $$ MHz,  $$ k=-7,...,+12 $$.
    * C/A; P.

  - G2 band: $$ 1246+k \cdot 716 $$ MHz
    * C/A (GLONASS M); P.

  - G3 band: $$ 1202.025 $$ MHz
    * I; Q; I+Q.


* **Beidou**
  - B1 band: $$ 1561.098 $$ MHz
    * I; Q; I+Q.

  - B2 band: $$ 1207.14 $$ MHz
    * I; Q; I+Q.

  - B3 band: $$ 1268.52 $$ MHz
    * I; Q; I+Q.


Depending of the region of use, other satellite-based signals can be available:

* **SBAS**: C/A in the L1 band; I, Q, I+Q in L5.
* **QZSS**: C/A, L1C (D), L1C (P), L1C (D+P), and L1-SAIF in the L1 band;  L2C (M), L2C (L) and L2C (M+L) in the L2 band; I, Q, and I+Q in the L5 band; and S, L, and S+L in the LEX(6) band located at $$ 1278.75 $$ MHz.
* **IRNSS**: A SPS, B RS (D), C RS (P), and B+C in the L5 band; A SPS, B RS (D), C RS (P), and B+C in the S band, located at $$ 2492.028 $$ MHz.

## Interoperability with radio frequency front-ends

## Interoperability with data collection topologies

## Output formats


* GIS formats: KML, GeoJSON, SHP.
* Application-specific messages (_e.g._, NMEA 0183 / 2000, ISOBUS, proprietary/custom).
* RTCM-104 messages.
* RINEX observation and navigation data files. Specify version: 2.10, 2.11, 3.02, 3.03.

## Interoperability with data link protocols.

* Ethernet (IEEE 802.3ab / 802.3ae / others).
* Wireless LAN (IEEE 802.11 family).
* Bluetooth (specify version).
* CAN bus (see ISOBUS, standard ISO 11783).
* Serial communication: USB (specify version) / RS-232 / RS-422 / RS-485 / PCI Express / Pmod / FMC - VITA57 / SPI / I$$ ^2 $$C / MIL-STD-1553 / others.



## Indicators of Interoperability

* Number of GNSS signals, defined as combinations of frequency band and channel or code, from which GNSS observables (_i.e._, measurements of pseudorange, carrier phase, Doppler and signal strength) can be generated by the software receiver.


* Type and frequency of real-time generated RTCM messages. Specify RTCM version.
